where Hezbollah has launched Rockets
from Southern Lebanon Israel is
retaliating with air strikes on The
Villages of dyra and yarin after Rockets
were fired into Northern Israel on
Tuesday hasah fired guided missile at an
Israeli military vehicle and Israeli
forces responded by bombing Hezbollah
outposts we can speak now to Ali Hashim
our correspondent On the Border he's
live from dirra that's where this
fighting has been taking place Ali just
talk through exactly what's happening
there yes Laura we are standing just in
front of the post where all the uh
shelling and launching of rockets was
taking place uh for now we uh heard from
emergency services that there are two
civilians injured however there are many
civilians who are kind of uh stuck in
that area because they can't arrive
there there are reports but they can't
out there what happened today is that uh
in the morning there were several guided
missiles launched from the Lebanese side
of the border on an Israeli military
post and then maybe our U colleague R
could take us towards the wall that's
that's the the border line between
Lebanon and Israel and that's where
everything was uh happening so after the
the guided missiles hit the Israeli post
then
we started hearing Israeli shelling now
shelling was taken uh place um with
drones uh not not uh uh not Air Raids or
air strikes rather with drones
artillery and um following that moment
of strikes we started hearing gunshots
so it seems there were some skirmishes
now what we are talking about over here
is just observations we don't have the
clear pict picture it's just what we are
able to see from this side we try to be
as close as possible to the flash point
um however this is this is part of a
greater context a bigger context maybe
could be explained later yesterday there
were Rockets uh launched from South
Lebanon from Hamas day of before
yesterday uh Islamic Jihad infiltrated
from this same area froma so U the
tension is is mounting from the Lebanese
side of the Border still an operation
area but things are gradually getting
out of control okay Ali thanks very much
for bringing us the situation there on
the ground well let's try and get a bit
more context on the situation there we
can join Zena Hoda she is with us from a
village of called Maroon al- Ras that's
along the Lebanon Israel border and Zena
this has long been a volatile border so
can we still say though that the
fighting is a contained situation or has
it spread wider than
that it's still limited but it's
gradually escalating it's day four since
we've seen um escalation if you like
along the Lebanon Israel border and what
what we're seeing is you know attacks
tit fortat attacks Hezbollah saying that
this is in response it's targeting the
Israeli position in response to the
killing of three of its members two days
ago um so both sides really limiting uh
the uh artillery shelling or the attacks
to military targets but this could
easily change and already you hear some
officials being quoted in Israeli media
that the Rules of Engagement will change
we're getting reports that some of the
uh retaliatory strikes by the Israelis
um hit close to civilian homes so the
situation is very very tense we've been
coming to this border over the past four
days now when you drive along the border
you don't see anyone people have left
their homes uh the sound of Israeli
drones constantly overhead the sound of
Israeli war planes people of this region
know very well that the possibility of
allout War cannot be ruled out but
Hezbollah has been treading carefully
sending messages putting pressure on the
Israelis telling them that if you
continue this escalation against Gaza
you will face pressure elsewhere and
it's not just Lebanon yesterday they
opened a new front and that is the Syria
border um Hezbollah as well as other
Iranian backed groups have positions
along Syria's border with Israel there
were rockets that were fired across the
border yesterday really another message
that your forces your resources could be
stretched thin if you continue pushing
with this with this offensive um but at
the end of the day all I can tell you is
that people here are worried you're
getting uh you know a lot of news that
you can't even confirm for example some
local news agencies are saying that
Hezbollah told the UN peacekeeping
forces as well as the Lebanese Army that
they should leave the area we called the
unifil command they said this is not
true uh the Lebanese Army has not said
anything about this so tension is
building up the pressure is building up
as each day passes and as as you know
Israel continues to put more and more
pressure on Gaza then expect Israel to
face more and more pressure from this
front and the front uh bordering Syria
okay Zoda thanks very much for bring us
the scene there on that border Northern
Israel and Southern Lebanon thanks very
much